[DX-1557] MDCB healthcheck (#5121)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/tyk-multi-data-centre/setup-controller-data-centre.md

It is possible to perform a health check on the MDCB service. This allows you to determine if the service is running, so is useful when using MDCB with load balancers.

Health checks is available via the HTTP port. This is defined by `http_port` configuration setting, and defaults to `8181`. Do **not** use the standard MDCB listen port (`listen_port`) for MDCB health checks.

From MDCB v2.7.0, there are 2 health check services available.
1. `/liveness` endpoint returns a `HTTP 200 OK` response when the service is operational.

> 2. `/readiness` endpoint returns a `HTTP 200 OK` response when MDCB is ready to accept request. It ensures that dependent components such as Redis and data store are connected, and grpc server is ready for connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `/readiness` endpoint returns a `HTTP 200 OK` response when MDCB is ready to accept request. It ensures that dependent components such as Redis and data store are connected, and the gRPC server is ready for connection.
```

> 2. `/readiness` endpoint returns a `HTTP 200 OK` response when MDCB is ready to accept request. It ensures that dependent components such as Redis and data store are connected, and the gRPC server is ready for connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `/readiness` endpoint returns a `HTTP 200 OK` response when MDCB is ready to accept requests. It ensures that dependent components such as Redis and data store are connected, and the gRPC server is ready for connection.
```

See [MDCB API]({{<ref "tyk-mdcb-api">}}) for details of the endpoints.

> In MDCB v2.6.0 or earlier, MDCB only offers one health check endpoint at `/health` via port defined by the `healthcheck_port` configuration setting. The default port is `8181`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In MDCB v2.6.0 or earlier, MDCB only offers one health check endpoint at `/health` via the port defined by the `healthcheck_port` configuration setting. The default port is `8181`.
```

To use the health check service, call the `/health` endpoint i.e. `http://my-mdcb-host:8181/health`. This will return a `HTTP 200 OK` response if the service is running.

> Please note that an HTTP 200 OK response from `/health` endpoint merely indicates that the MDCB service is operational. However, it is important to note that the service may not yet be ready for use if it is unable to establish a connection with its dependent components (such as Redis and Data store) or if they are offline. Upgrade to v2.6.0 and later to have more accurate health checking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that an HTTP 200 OK response from the `/health` endpoint merely indicates that the MDCB service is operational. However, it is important to note that the service may not yet be ready for use if it is unable to establish a connection with its dependent components (such as Redis and Data store) or if they are offline. Upgrade to v2.6.0 and later to have more accurate health checking.
```

May 06 11:50:42 master tyk-sink[1798]: time="2018-05-06T11:50:42Z" level=info msg="Ping!"
```

#### Check MDCB configurations

> From MDCB v2.7.0, a secured HTTP endpoint `/config` can be enabled that allow you to query configuration of MDCB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From MDCB v2.7.0, a secured HTTP endpoint `/config` can be enabled that allows you to query configuration of MDCB.
```

> To enable the secured HTTP endpoint, make sure you have following config:

Reviewer: Explain where the config should be added to. Should it be added to tyk.conf or a K8s deployment or values.yaml?

For example:
To enable the secured HTTP endpoint, make sure you have the following in your values.yaml config file:

Author: updated

```json
{
  "security.enable_http_secure_endpoints": true,
  "security.secret": "<secured-endpoint-secret>"
}
```

> Then you can query MDCB config at `/config` to return a json representation of MDCB config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subsequently, you can issue a request to the `/config` endpoint to return a json representation of your MDCB config:
```

```bash

> curl -H "x-tyk-authorization: <secured-endpoint-secret>" http://my-mdcb-host:8181/config

Reviewer: update the example to use https

Author: updated

```

> Alternatively, you can query MDCB config at `/env` to return config in the form of environment variables settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can issue a request to the `/env` endpoint to return your MDCB config in the form of environment variables settings:
```

```bash

> curl -H "x-tyk-authorization: <secured-endpoint-secret>" http://my-mdcb-host:8181/env

Reviewer: Does /env also require a secured endpoint, if so should this example be updated to use https instead of http?

Author: updated
